So, getting to the question. Does this look familiar? Wait for it. It's coming. One more
second. There we go. So, as we just saw, small plots lead to a bad user experience. I'm Ryszard
Szymanski, I'm an R Shiny developer at Epsilon, and this is my worst nightmare. So, bottlenecks
can occur in different parts of the process, which are, you first start with data preparation,
so let's say you fetch data from your database, you do some aggregations before you start
working on your plot, then you define your plot in R using your favorite library like,
I don't know, Plotly or HRS4R, and later on, all of the plot-related data and settings
get sent to the browser where your plots get rendered. And what I've discovered, that
there are three main root causes of bottlenecks happening in the plot rendering process, the
first one being an inefficient data preparation process. So, let's say you want to visualize
your home budget data, and you want to visualize it in the form of a box plot. This is how
you would go about it in Plotly, and it makes it super convenient to do in R, so you plug
in your data set, you pick your variable, and you pick your plot type. But, let's focus
on our first line right here, so how do we prepare the data? So, that code here might
work very well for small data, let's say you just have a couple of rows, but as your data
gets bigger, you're essentially fetching all of your data sets, all of your data set, into
the memory of your process, just to create a box plot. So if you have millions of rows
in the database, that can be pretty inefficient. But let's go back to our box plot. To plot
a box plot, you just need five values, the minimum value, the lower quartile, the median,
the upper quartile, and the maximum value. So what if instead of fetching millions of
rows, you would just calculate those five values on the database site, and plug it into
your Plotly function like this. Sometimes we also try to show too much, and it can manifest
itself in different ways. For example, let's go back to our millions of points, and let's
say we're using a scatter plot to visualize it. Rendering millions of points can take
a while. Perhaps you can convey the same type of information using a different plot. Again,
let's go back to the example of the box plot, where you can just fetch five values and show
perhaps the similar information you want to convey. Also, when you're creating a dashboard,
it might be very tempting to put a lot of plots in your dashboard, but the reality is
users rarely are able to focus on all of them at once. And rendering six plots might
take a while, so why not instead just show one plot and provide controls for your users
to switch between each type of plot to make it faster. We sometimes also use our plotting
libraries inefficiently. So a lot of libraries provide convenience functions like toWebGL
in Plotly or BoostMode in HighCharter, which leverage a technology called WebGL, which
makes use of your GPU to render your plot in the browser faster. And in some cases,
there are some available options, like for example, the HighCharter RJSON option in the
HighCharter package. And HighCharter by default uses a package called JSON Lite to prepare
data and settings for the browser, and as your data gets larger, it can get a bit slow.
And RJSON is a bit more efficient, and some users have reported a 25x speed increase while
switching to RJSON. All right, thank you. That will be it for me, and if you have any
questions, you can post them on the slide deck that's been mentioned, or if you want
to talk to me, you can find me at the AppState booth.